# Grade Figure Outerer (GFO)

GFO is a command-line tool that I created to automate the process of parsing, calculating, and organizing my course grades in a spreadsheet format, using the Unix Spreadsheet Calculator (SC). This tool processes grade files provided by my professor and outputs SC commands which I can redirect to an SC file to view my grades in a neat, organized spreadsheet. 

## How it Works

GFO operates in three main sections, each corresponding to a different category of my grades - Projects, Journals, and Participation. 

For each category, GFO:

1. Reads the relevant grade file (`"${desig}".projects`, `"${desig}".journal`, or `"${desig}".participation`), searching for lines containing ':final tally', which indicates a grade entry.

2. For each found grade entry, it uses the 'cut' command to separate my score from the total possible score. These scores are then assigned to variables (`mypts`, `myjpts`, `myppts` for my scores; `ttlpts`, `ttljpts`, `ttlppts` for total possible scores) using `let`.

3. Formats the project or activity name and the corresponding scores into an SC command (right-justified, hence the 'rightstring') and prints it to stdout. 

4. Increments the column identifier for each project, journal or participation activity.

5. After processing all individual entries, it computes the tallies for each category by summing my scores and the total possible scores, then calculates the corresponding percentages. These are also formatted into SC commands and printed to stdout.

6. Finally, it calculates the total points across all categories and the overall grade percentage, formats these into SC commands, and prints to stdout.

## Output

Running GFO will generate a series of SC commands, representing my course grades organized in a spreadsheet structure, with columns for project names or activity names, my scores, total scores, percentages, and tallies. 

The commands generated by GFO include SC functions such as @sum and @if, providing built-in functionality of the Spreadsheet Calculator (SC). The @sum function is used for computing total scores, while the @if function is used for limiting scores to their maximum possible value.

By redirecting the stdout to an .sc file, I can open this file with SC to view and further manipulate my grades in a spreadsheet format.

## Usage

```bash
./gfo comporg > gfo0.sc
```

This will create a file named gfo0.sc that I can open with SC, detailing my grades for my Computer Organization course, with individual grades for each project, journal, and participation activity, as well as total scores and percentages.

## Dependencies

To use GFO, you will need a UNIX terminal running Bash, and the Spreadsheet Calculator (SC).